Support installing OSSM Console without a Kiali server present ("lite mode") (#10149)
kiali/kiali: WORKING_WITH_OSSMC.md

# OpenShift Service Mesh Console (OSSM Console)

The OpenShift Service Mesh Console is a Webpack plugin that extends the OpenShift Console. The official title is "OpenShift Service Mesh Console"; you may also see it abbreviated as "OSSMC", "ossmconsole", or "OSSM Console".

OSSMC is based on the OpenShift Console [dynamic plugins](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/web_console/dynamic-plugin/dynamic-plugin-overview.html) framework. Installing the plugin adds a **Service Mesh** navigation category to the OpenShift Console. OSSMC may work with upstream Istio as well as OpenShift Service Mesh.

The main installation mechanism is the Kiali Operator.

## How it works

OSSMC provides two layers of functionality:

> 1. **Navigating multiple meshes** — The **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** pages list every Istio and Kiali CR on the cluster. They talk to the Kubernetes API directly, so they work even when no Kiali server is connected to the plugin. From **Kiali instances**, admins can **Connect** or **Disconnect** which Kiali server OSSMC uses for observability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Navigating multiple meshes** — The **Istios** and **Kialis** pages list every Istio and Kiali CR on the cluster. They talk to the Kubernetes API directly, so they work even when no Kiali server is connected to the plugin. From **Kialis**, admins can **Connect** or **Disconnect** which Kiali server OSSMC uses for observability.
```

Author: done

2. **Kiali-powered observability** — When a Kiali instance is connected and reachable, OSSMC adds Overview, Traffic Graph, Mesh, Namespaces, Applications, Services, Workloads, Istio Config, and **Service Mesh** tabs on OpenShift resource detail pages. These pages proxy through the connected Kiali server configured on the OSSMConsole CR.

> When a Kiali server is connected, **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** appear at the bottom of the Service Mesh menu (below a separator). When no Kiali server is connected, those two pages are the Service Mesh menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Kiali server is connected, **Istios** and **Kialis** appear at the bottom of the Service Mesh menu (below a separator). When no Kiali server is connected, those two pages are the Service Mesh menu.
```

Author: done

See the official documentation for details:

- [OSSM Console integration overview](https://kiali.io/docs/integrations/ossm-console/)
- [Navigating Multiple Meshes](https://kiali.io/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/)
- [OSSMC User Guide](https://kiali.io/docs/ossmc/users-guide/) (Kiali-powered pages)
- [The OSSMConsole CR](https://kiali.io/docs/installation/installation-guide/creating-updating-ossmconsole-cr/)

## Platform Setup

These are the things you need before developers can start working with OSSMC:

1. OpenShift cluster with OpenShift Service Mesh or Istio installed
2. `oc` client available in the path
3. `podman` or `docker` client available in the path

> A Kiali Server is optional. You need one to develop or test Kiali-powered observability pages, but not to develop or test **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Kiali Server is optional. You need one to develop or test Kiali-powered observability pages, but not to develop or test **Istios** and **Kialis**.
```

Author: done
